
Question 1:	
One of the components of a computer is its CPU. What is a CPU and what role does it play in a computer?

The CPU is the Central Processing Unit. It executes instructions from memory.

Question 2:	
Explain what is meant by an "asynchronous event." Give some examples.

An asynchronous event is one that occurs at an unpredictable time such as user input or completion of tasks such as file downloads.

Question 3:	
What is the difference between a "compiler" and an "interpreter"?

A compiler transforms high level code into machine code before the code is executed. An interpreter transforms high level code into machine code as the code is executed.

Question 4:	
Explain the difference between high-level languages and machine language.

A high level language is human readable and will be written directly by a programmer. Machine language is usually compiled from a high level language and is directly understandable to a machine.

Question 5:	
If you have the source code for a Java program, and you want to run that program, you will need both a compiler and an interpreter. What does the Java compiler do, and what does the Java interpreter do?

The Java compiler transforms Java source code into an intermediate bytecode. The interpreter transforms the bytecode into machine code as the program is executed.

Question 6:	
What is a subroutine?

A subroutine is a collection of instructions used to break a larger problem into smaller ones.

Question 7:	
Java is an object-oriented programming language. What is an object?

An object is a collection of subroutines and the data associated with them.

Question 8:	
What is a variable? (There are four different ideas associated with variables in Java. Try to mention all four aspects in your answer. Hint: One of the aspects is the variable's name.)

Question 9:	
Java is a "platform-independent language." What does this mean?

Question 10:	
What is the "Internet"? Give some examples of how it is used. (What kind of services does it provide?)